Jinabhai is related to Respondent No.1/Pravinchandra Patel as father.
Pravinchandra and Anilkumar are brothers and sons of Jinabhai.
They had three other brothers who were already separated.
The parties before the court are related as follows: Jinabhai, Pravinchandra, Anilkumar, Savitaben (wife of Pravinchandra), Geetaben (wife of Anilkumar). 
Kalpita, Alpita and Trupti are children of Pravinchandra.
Darshan, Chetan and Vikram are sons of Anilkumar.
Monika is wife of Darshan.
The user is an expert in fertilizer manufacturing, chemicals, and real estate at Jalgaon.
They have set up multiple companies and partnerships over time.
They own various immovable and movable properties.
Pravinchandra Patel has three daughters who are married and settled outside of Jalgaon.
Anilkumar Patel has three sons who reside with him at Jalgaon.
To avoid potential litigation, the family decided to divide their assets among each other.
They approached Latikaben (respondent 2No.12) and Bhikhalal Nathalal Patel (respondent No.11), who are relatives of Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel, to act as arbitrators.
The parties agreed to appoint Latikaben and Bhikhalal Nathalal Patel as arbitrators through an MOU dated May 21, 1996.
The arbitration agreement was signed by all members of the family, including the appellants and respondents.
While the arbitrators were away to Rajkot for emergency work, Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel signed an interim MOU on June 29, 1996 (IMOU).
The IMOU covered matters related to bank accounts and withdrawal power, NPK allocation, etc.
Both Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel signed the IMOU on behalf of themselves and their family members.
The arbitrators arrived at Jalgaon on July 4, 1996, and continued with the arbitration proceedings, passing an award on July 7, 1996 (with a mention of the IMOU dated June 29, 1996).
Certain properties were given to Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel under the Award.
Properties were given to Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel whereas some other assets were kept undivided with equal rights and interest thereon of both groups.
The award was written in Gujarati language by hand by the arbitrators and signed by them, and a copy of it was given to Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel personally which they duly acknowledged.
A recital was made on the copy of the award that both Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar Patel and their family members would act in accordance with the award and give effect to it.
By an award dated 03.11.1996, the issues between appellants and respondents were finally decided taking note of earlier awards.
According to Pravinchandra Patel, Anilkumar Patel accepted and acted upon the awards on more than one occasion.
USER filed an arbitration petition No.202 of 2005 under Section 34 of the Act before the District Judge, Jalgaon on 29.11.2005 challenging the award dated 07.07.1996
They learned about the arbitral award only on 11.08.2005 when they were served with the notice of execution petition filed by Pravinchandra Patel alongwith a xerox copy of the award dated 07.07.1996
They contend that period of limitation starts only from 11.08.2005, from the date of their receipt of copy of the award
Appellant Nos. 1(a) to 1(d) and respondent No.10 were not included as parties in the award dated 07.07.1996 and therefore, the award is not binding on them
They have alleged that the signature of Anilkumar Patel in the arbitral award showing his acknowledgement was forged and cannot be acted upon
Acknowledgement forged and cannot be acted upon.
Application filed by Anilkumar Patel to amend arbitration petition No.202 of 2005 to challenge award dated 03.11.1996.
Application dismissed on ground of limitation.
Challenge to order dismissing the application was made through W.P. No.5502 of 2006 before the High Court.
Matter remanded back to District Judge for fresh consideration.
Order dated 28.09.2006 dismissing amendment application again on ground of limitation challenged through W.P. No.7614 of 2006 before the High Court.
Anilkumar Patel is challenging an arbitral award.
The High Court dismissed his writ petition, finding that he was acting inconsistently by denying knowledge of the award in some cases while relying on it in others. 
In a separate proceedings, the District Judge allowed Anilkumar Patel's application under Section 34 of the Act, holding that the period of limitation starts from when he received the copy of the arbitral award.  
The District Judge set aside the award on grounds of several serious issues raised in the application.
The High Court relied on various correspondence and legal proceedings to conclude that Anilkumar Patel received the award dated 07.07.1996.
Based on these findings, the High Court held that a petition filed in 2005 under Section 34 of the Act was time-barred and dismissed it.
The legal heirs of Anilkumar Patel contended that they did not receive a copy of the award dated 07.07.1996, and mere knowledge of its existence does not start the limitation period.
The appellants' senior counsel argued that the limitation period can only be computed from the day the award was served on them.
The limitation period for computing arbitral awards can only begin on the day the signed copy is received under Section 31(5) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
  An application for setting aside an arbitral award can be made only by filing an application with the court under sub-section (2) and sub-section (3).
  The application must be filed within 3 months of receiving the award or, if a request was made under Section 33, from the date of disposal of that request by the arbitral tribunal.
  If the applicant can show sufficient cause for not filing the application within the prescribed period, the court may entertain it after the expiration of the said period of 3 months but not thereafter.
Section 34(3) - no entertainment if application made after 3 months.
court may entertain appl within 30 days w/cause.
period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the award is a mandatory requirement under Section 34(2)(b) of the Act and must be strictly adhered to;
failure to comply with this time limit results in rendering the application invalid.
When the execution petition was filed?
Notice received in relation to the execution petition?
Contention of appellant Nos. 1(a) to 1(d) and respondent No.10 regarding Section 31(5)?
Whether receipt of award by Anilkumar Patel with endorsement constitutes receipt by his family members?
Point falling for consideration in relation to MOU dated 21.05.1996?
Pravinchandra Patel and Anilkumar  Patel have appointed their sister Latikaben and her husband Bhikhalal Nathalal Patel for effecting partition between the two families, both families having consented to same.
The MOU was signed by Pravinchandra Patel and his wife and daughters (Respondents No 1-5) & Anilkumar Patel and his wife and three sons and one daughter in law (Appellant Nos. 1(a)-1(d), Respondent no.10).
The MOU stipulates that the award be in writing, and a copy of award to be furnished each member of families.
Arbitrators shall sign it
Both families to act according to partition particulars given by arbitrators
While arbitrators were away, both Pravinchandra and Anilkumar decided to streamline business of firms and companies through interim MOU on 29.06.1996 (IMOU)
Covenants of IMOU covered bank account and withdrawal power, NPK allocation etc
Pravinchandra signed for himself and as Power of Attorney Holder for wife and daughters
 amounting  to  service  of  arbitral award on Anilkumar Patel.
has enumerated various circumstances indicating awareness of Award.
dated 22.07.1996 sent by Anilkumar Patel to Pravinchandra Patel seeking delivery of file related to Gat No.266/2 of Bambhori, Taluka Brandol.
USER has requested to handover the file maintained in connection with agricultural land mentioned in Gat No.266/2.
Inter Office Memo shows that even on 22nd July, 1996, Anilkumar Patel had acted upon award dated 7th July, 1996.
Central Bank of India has filed recovery proceeding in O.A.No.298-A/2001 against Pravinchandra Patel and others.
In the said proceeding before DRT, Anilkumar Patel referred to arbitration award passed in July 1996 and stated that he has no interest in M/s. Patel Narayandas Bhagwandas Fertilizers Private Limited.
Based on such stand taken by Anilkumar Patel, DRT observed that Anilkumar Patel had resigned from the Directorship of the said company and exonerated him from liability to bank.
O.A.No.298-A/2001 against Anilkumar Patel was dismissed by DRT.
USER disputed his signature on award dated 07/07/1996 by drafting a petition.
Anilkumar Patel, head of family, accepted the award on behalf of appellant nos. 1(a) to 1(d) and respondent no. 10.
High Court held that receiving copy of award by Anilkumar on behalf of himself and other respondents was in compliance with Section 31(5) of the Act and Section 34(3).
Application filed under Section 34 of the Act by Anilkumar Patel and appellant nos. 1(a) to 1(d) and respondent no. 10 was barred by limitation.
Appeals dismissed, no costs.
