The appeal is filed against an order passed by the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
The appellant had entered into a lease agreement with the first respondent for certain machinery.
Dispute arose between the parties, and the first respondent sent a notice to the appellant demanding payment of Rs. 2,84,58,701 within fourteen days.
In the notice, it was specifically stated that in case of failure to pay, interest at the rate of 36% per annum would be charged from the due date.
The appellant challenges the order passed by the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court on the ground that there is no arbitration agreement between the parties.
The court grants leave to appeal and directs the appellant to file a detailed statement of facts within four weeks.
Consent of appellant and name of arbitrator should have been proposed before appointment
Counsel for 1st respondent supported impugned order
Learned counsel for appellant argued that order passed by Chief Justice is amenable to Article 136 of Constitution
Learned senior counsel for 1st respondent stated that matter can be decided on merits without deciding question of maintainability
No decision on question of maintainability as stand taken by respondents
In order to consider whether there was any real failure of the mechanism provided under the Lease Agreement, it is relevant to note the Arbitration clause in the Agreement.
The Arbitration clause is Clause 20.9 of the Agreement and it provides that any dispute under this Lease shall be referred to an Arbitrator nominated by the Lessor.
The award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
The venue of such arbitration shall be in Bombay.
Save as aforesaid, the Courts at Bombay alone will have jurisdiction to try any suit in respect of any claim or dispute arising out of or under this Lease or in any way relating to the same.
The clause gives the lessor unfettered discretion to choose an arbitrator without any notice period or consent from the appellant.
There is no provision in the clause that specifies a time frame within which the appellant must appoint an arbitrator, and therefore it can be inferred that 30 days is a reasonable timeframe for this purpose.
The appellant's right to appoint an arbitrator is subject to the condition of doing so within 30 days from receipt of the demand by the lessor.
| --- |
Arbitration clause in agreement.
Amount due from appellant substantial.
Respondent cannot be faulted for giving longer payment period.
Appellant did not file application after respondent invoked Section 9 of Act and filed petition seeking interim relief.
Decision in B.W.L Ltd vs MTNL & Ors (2000(2) Arb LR 190 (Del.) distinguished.
Respondent failed to appoint arbitrator despite opportunity given by court on 11/10/99.
Felt that it was a fit case for appointment of an arbitrator under Section 11.
Distinguishable as the appointment was not made before filing of application under Section 11.
In Sharma & Sons vs Engineer-in-Chief, Army Headquarters, New Delhi & Ors (2000 (2) Arb.LR 31 (AP)), respondents were requested to appoint arbitrator on various dates in 1997 but application under Section 11 was filed after nearly 4 years on April 21, 1999 only thereafter the respondent appointed an arbitrator on May 13, 1999.
High Court of Andhra Pradesh held that in view of Section 11(6) read with Section 11(8), respondent had forfeited his right to appoint arbitrator after expiry of 30 days from date of receipt of notice under Section 11.
The doctrine of freedom of contract has been eroded by social and labor legislation.
When one party hasn't disputed an arbitration clause, they are bound to it & must comply with the procedure outlined in that clause.
The 1st respondent did not violate any procedures or act against the Arbitration Clause by appointing the 2nd respondent as the Arbitrator.
The Arbitrator's name can be suggested by the respondent and appointed only with the concurrence of the appellant.
According to P. Ramanatha Aiyar's Law Lexicon, "nominations" is equivalent to "appointments" when used by a mayor in an instrument executed for appointing certain persons to office.
Nomination virtually amounts to appointment for a specific purpose and the 1st respondent has acted in accordance with Section 20.9 of the Agreement.
So long as the concurrence or ratification by the appellant is not stated in the arbitration clause, the nomination amounts to an appointment.
The arbitration clause selects the Arbitrator.
The appellant had no cause of action to file an application under Section 11 of the Act because there was no failure of agreement or non-action by the first respondent.
The application was rightly rejected and the appeal is dismissed without any order as to costs.
